In this project, you're going to build a system monitor that resembles the program htop,
which is a standard program for monitoring Linux systems.
So we'll start here with our project workspace.
You can also build this on your local computer if you
have access to a Linux system on your local computer.
I'm going to launch go to desktop here,
although you actually don't have to do that.
You could build the project within the workspace editor.
But I'm going to launch my desktop.
I'm first going to open the terminator.
Let's just take a look at htop and what htop looks like. This is htop.
It's a Linux system monitor.
There are a bunch of different things going on in htop.
The top half of the screen is monitoring the CPU,
and memory, and some system-wide data.
So there are actually four CPUs on this machine,
and you can tell that the load on each of them is fairly low.
There's also a fair bit of memory,
and you can see the memory usage.
Then in the bottom half of the screen,
you can see different processes that are running on the system.
The most intense processes at the moment have to do with VNC,
which is the tunneling program that allows us to connect a Linux desktop to your browser.
So it makes sense that
VNC program would be putting the most strain on the system resources right now.
This console output is using a library called ncurses,
which is a type of graphical display output,
but for the terminal.
We'll also use that for the project.
In the project, we've done all of the ncurses display interface work for you.
But if you want to extend the project from what we've given you,
you can do your own work in ncurses.